All right.
In the last section, we have created the movie page.
In this section, we're going to create the search box and add the search ability through the movies
of the IMDB database.
So as you can see from the final version, we have added another search box component to the layout
because this component is available inside all pages.
For example, if you go to the about page, we can still see the search.
Uh, and also in trending on other or even the page of the movie, we can see the search bar.
So we need to add it inside the layout JSX ex, which allows us to have it in all website.
So we go back to Visual Studio Code and we go to layout that gsx.
And we just add in after the search box here.
So I'm going to create this search.
Box and let's create this one inside the components.
So I'm going to come here and create this search.
Dot G6.
We just create a reac functional component using our c, and now we come back to layer layouts and we
can import it using contour space.
So now if you go to our website, we see the search box here.
So now we need to design it.
We need to add the input and other things.
So let's go back to Visual Studio Code.
And we create this file.
We go to search box that is X.
So instead of a div, I'm going to return a form here because we want to submit a form.
So we're going to have a form and this form is going to have an input inside it with the type of text.
So just create an input.
We added clone text, which is going to make input with the type of text.
It doesn't need an idea of name.
So but we're going to add a value on change, placeholder and etc. For now we just add the placeholder.
We just say search because I want to just make the UI now.
So just say search.
Keywords.
Dot, dot, dot.
And let's see what we have inside our website.
Now we have this search bar.
Let's close this one.
So I can see the changes in real time.
Let's close the Explorer section using Contour P.
Now let's style this input first so we can see it better here.
So we add a class name here.
So we're going to style it first.
I want the width to be full.
So 100%.
And for this one we need to.
So we have the width full and we have a height of 14.
Then we want to make it rounded.
Rounded as is.
Hm.
So which.
Which is going to have a border radius.
And.
And also, I want the color of the place holder.
So place holder.
I want the color to be gray.
500.
After that, I wanted to have a remove the off line.
I don't want when we click on it, we see something around it.
So we just remove the outline by just saying outline none.
Like this.
And then we remove the background color.
We just say background transparent.
K trance parents.
So now we have completed the input.
Now let's add the button, so we need a button at the end.
So I just want to add a button with a type of submit, because when we click on it, we want to submit
the form.
So this is going to have a type of submit and also.
Inside it.
We want to just say search and let's add some styling as well.
So we're going to have a class name.
For example, I want to change the color to be Tex.
Amber Burke 700.
Or.
So this is the.
So this button.
Or we can make it 500 so you can see it better.
You should test it.
That is too bright, so 600 would be fine.
And then when this is disabled, because we want to be it and make it disabled when there is no text
inside the input.
So when this is disabled, I want the text to be gray 400.
Okay.
Now we need to style this one.
So we have the input.
The button is here, but we want them to actually to be next to each other.
So for the form, I want to add some classes.
First thing first, I want to change the display to flex, so we bring them next to each other.
And then I wanted to limit the maximum width of them to be 6xl, which is going to be similar to the
head.
And we use m x auto to bring them to the center.
Which is margin X auto.
And then we use justify content between.
So we add a space between them.
And also, we want to have an item's center.
So now we just have this one here.
The other thing is I want to have some space when we have a smaller screen, so we just say
padding in the x axis of five.
We just push it a little bit here.
And then also when we type, I think.
Yeah.
This is goes all the way here.
Okay for for this one, to be sure, until this one is here, we can add inside the inputs, something
called flex one.
This is going to help us to have all the input all the way to the end like this.
And this is also working for the dark mode.
Let's refresh the page.
So this is a light mode.
And for the dark mode, we have this one.
So the button, you can see it now, but when this is disabled would be great.
So for checking the inputs, now we have a starlet.
Now we want to save whatever is inside the input.
To do that, we can use the user state react hook.
But when we when you use any hooks, we need to change the this component to be client side.
Otherwise we get an error.
So we just use use client to make this component client side.
Know, we can add a piece of state called input and we track the changes inside this input.
So we go here just before the return.
Are going to create a piece of state and we call it.
Uh, for example, search or input.
And the initial value for that bond would be an empty string.
And also we're going to create a function here that is going to.
By checking the input is going to redirect a person to the different pages.
So first thing first, inside the input, I'm going to add.
And on change event listener, which is going to trigger a function which is going to set the search
to its value and get the event here.
I think I've got.
And then.
No, we cannot.
Let's refresh.
First, the error.
The error is that the user set is not defined.
We need to import it from React and then we need to add because we are changing this one, but we are
not tracking.
We don't have the value and we should keep the previous value by setting the value to be the search.
So we get the search, we update the value.
So we can keep this value.
And also we're going to track the changes here by using this unchanged event listener.
Now, when we submit the form, we're going to add an another event listener called and Submit.
Which is going to trigger a function and we call that one handle.
And I'll submit.
Okay.
So we need to create the function here.
I'm going to create a function.
Called Handle submit, which is going to firstly prevent the default behavior of the browser, which
is refreshing the page.
So when we type something here and we click on search, we're not going to refresh the page.
And then this is going to console log the search, but I don't want to console log it.
First thing first, I want to prevent.
If this search is not existed, we're going to return.
It means.
When there is no nothing in the search box, we cannot submit it.
And then.
If there is something we're going to use.
A router.
A hook from the from the next Yes 13 called use router which is coming from next forward slash navigation.
So I'm going to import that one first.
I'm going to import.
As you can see.
Suggestion we import use rather from next forward slash.
This is for next 12 router.
The next.
Uh, the one for the next 13 is next post like navigation.
And then we need to initialize this one here.
We just create a constant called router, which is going to call this used router.
And finally, here we're going to push.
The person to the forward slash search for slash the term.
So as you can see, we get all the suggestions from GitHub copilot, which is going to help us to code
faster, but you need to understand the code.
Even though you could very fast, so never copy paste or even your copy paste, you understand?
That is quite fine.
All right.
So now we when we submit the form, when we write down something.
For example, we write down hello and we press enter.
We it which we are going to be redirected to the URL for slash.
Search for Slash.
Hello?
All right.
But when there is nothing in the search, I don't.
I want to prevent the ability to submit.
We have the prevention here, but I want the button to be disabled as well.
So inside the button, I'm going to disable this.
I want to disable when there is no.
Search.
K.
Now the button is disabled, so I cannot click on it.
But as soon as I write down something, this is going to be enabled.
Now we can go to the desired page.
So now we need to create this page.
So for example, I searched something, for example, Wolf, and this is going to redirect us to the
search for slash wolf.
Now.
What I want to do is.
Get this term here and I'm going to show all the results and all the results related to this fall,
Wolf.
So I'm going to create a page.
So let's open the Explorer section using contour shift E.
And inside the app directory, I'm going to create a file which includes the folder and the file.
So the folder is going to be search.
Another folder is going to be this search term.
And finally, we're going to create a file called Pages X.
So this is going to create the two folders and one file for us.
And let's create the file using our FC.
And we named the.
Component search.
Page K Now, if you go to our website and we just wait a little bit until the compilations finish and
we refresh the page, we should see the search page here inside this.
All right.
Now we want to work on this page.
This page is server side.
First thing first is server side, because we don't have any user fake or any hoax or any states.
So we can simply keep this for server side, which will be faster.
As well.
So we need to make this one asynchronous first thing first, and then we are going to.
Uh.
Fitch.
Fitch data.
We're going to just create a constant and we call it race as before.
It's it's very straightforward.
We're going to wait and fetch from from a dynamic.
Page.
As we get the suggestion, it's.
API the movie.
DB dot org.
Forward.
Slash three.
Slash.
A search for slash movie, and then we're going to pass the API key.
And finally.
We're going to pass the query, which is our search term.
Sometimes I get surprised with the suggestion that the get GitHub copilot gives me.
That is nice and.
We need to get this search term which can be available from here.
So here we get the params.
And inside the params we have the search term.
So we just say params dot search term and we have access to the search term and we have access to the
API key because it's located inside the environmental variable and we can just have access to it using
process dot e and v dot API key.
So now we get this information.
And also I want to add more things here.
The other things I want to do, I want to.
Just showed the English language.
So I'm going to add.
Uh.
Language.
English.
And also I want to exclude the adult movies.
Just I want to include the.
Normal movies, not the adult ones.
And.
We can just get the first page and we don't need it because we just want to get the first page.
And later if we we add the pagination, we can use this trick to increase the page so we can just make
the page dynamic as well.
So now we are getting just the English movies and also the ones that are not adult.
So after this.
First, I want to check if this race is not okay.
The result?
I want to return, for example.
I want to throw an error.
I want to throw.
New error.
And then this is going to be with the message.
Error fetching data.
So this is going to when we do this one, this is going to send an error.
But because we have created the error that JSX, we already have the message.
Something went wrong.
Try again.
So this is going to use the same file for this one because this is the parents of this folder.
So this is the way next year 13 works.
You have this error, that JSX layout that G6 hit the G6, all of them works for all the files under
them.
But if you want an exclusive message error or anything for this file, you need to add error dots file
next to this file.
So if you want a specific exclusive and only for this page error, you need to create another file for
this.
Otherwise, this is going to use this file by default.
So after that we're going to get the data.
By converting it to JSON file.
And finally.
Uh, yes, we got it.
And now we.
We can get the results.
By just getting data that results.
Okay.
So we got the result.
And also we can easily show it here because we have a component called results and we can just pass
this data to it and see it inside the results.
So here now, instead of just saying search search page, I want to just create a.
Valuable.
And I just want to say if the results exist.
And.
The results that links.
Is equal.
To zero.
So if there is a result, but the result number of results is zero, it means that there is no matching
result for that specific search.
So here we're going to.
Just the.
We're going to add a message here.
So I'm going to I just want to add ah1 tag.
That h one tag.
We just want to say no results.
Found.
So now I just want to style this one real quick.
I just want to say I just want to add a class name.
You see that it's got a slow every compiling is taking ten second or 20 seconds.
So because we are doing a real time.
So it's getting a little bit slow, but we are just getting close to the end of the project.
So we add a class name.
And the class name.
I just want to make bring the text to the center using text center.
And also, I want to change the.
I want to add some padding at a top of six.
So that was it for this part.
If there is no result, but if the result exists.
So if there is a results.
So I want to just.
Return date components that we have created.
The results, I'm going to pass the result to it.
So let's see.
So we have this component.
We have to import it.
So I'm going to use contra space to auto import it.
So we cannot auto import it.
We need to open the file.
So this result at JSS, if it's open here and then you can just easily get this suggestion.
I'm going to close the other parts.
So we go to.
Here.
And then we use control space so we don't get the suggestion.
That's fine.
Oh, it's already imported.
Okay, that's fine, because I thought this is not imported.
I was trying to import it.
So it's imported from the components for slash result.
Now we just need to pass the data, which is results.
And this is going to be equal to.
That results that we are getting.
From the API cut.
So.
I suggest you, when you are doing working on the some APIs and requesting you just stop the server
code until you understand and then you start the server and then check the results.
Otherwise, it's going to be very slow like that because I want to show you the result in real time.
I started this server.
So now.
Now we are getting the result for the wolf, as you can see.
So.
This is my favorite movie, The Wolf of Wall Street.
You can see the results are coming.
So it's a bit slow for the.
Because still compiling.
So that was it for creating the search results.
So.
We just fetch the data from this URL which gives us the data and then we got the result.
And if the result was true, we pass the data to the component that we have created before.
So we just see it like that.
And if there is no results, if there is an error, we're going to throw the error.
If there is no error, but the length of the result is zero, we're going to say no results found.
So you can see here the result.
Let's try to search something else.
For example, what should I search?
So, for example, we just say.
Uh.
Terminator.
And this is going to bring all the movies related to with the term Terminator in the title or the description.
Okay.
So that is working now.
And also it works with the dark mode or light mode as well.
As you can see, it's a bit slow.
This is just the development mode.
Now.
I want to deploy it to the Verso.
So this is going to be faster.
So first thing first, I want to just put this one to GitHub.
So we use Contour shift G and we just click on the plus sign.
And here we add a message.
And we just just say add.
Search ability.
And we're going to push this one to GitHub.
So we need to, I think.
This plus sign didn't work.
So now we need to commit and push it.
So.
Let me stop this server so you get a faster fork.
So now I go to the GitHub.
If you go to the comments now, we should see a new commit called add search ability.
Let's review what we have done.
So we have added the component, the call search box to the layout of JSX to see it all in all website.
And we have created a file inside two folders.
Search for size Search term.
Which is a server side component.
We have imported the result component to show the result, and we have changed this one to asynchronous.
And we got the parameters here params here, which gives us the params that search term.
And we have used this URL to get this search query.
And also we have excluded the adult movies and we just said use the United States or English language.
If the result was not okay.
It means if there is an error, just throw a new error.
Otherwise just the turn the data to a JSON and save it inside a constant called data.
After that we just get the result from data that results.
And we.
We have returned.
If the result was true and the length of the result was zero, we just said no result font.
Otherwise we just pass the result to this component and show it inside the page.
And also we have created another component called Search Box, which is a client side.
Component because it is using the hawks like.
Use a state and use router from next forward slash navigation.
We have created a piece of state called Search to track the search inside the.
This term.
And.
We just.
Initialize the router.
And also we have created a function which is going to prevent the default behavior.
And if there is no search in the box, we're going to return.
Otherwise we're going to push or redirect the person to a new page with this URL.
Forward slash search.
Forward.
Slash the search.
And this search which is coming from this.
Estate the piece of state.
We have created a form here which is going to submit, and when we submit it, we're going to call a
function called Handle submit.
And we have created an input which which has the value of search and it has an unchanged event listener
which is going to trigger this function, which is going to set the search to the e, the targeted value
which is coming from the value of the input.
And finally, we have created a button which is going to be disabled if there is nothing in the.
Search.
And also the type of this button is submit.
Also, I forgot to add something here.
You can add it yourself.
After we redirect the person to this page, you can set this search term to be an empty string again.
So.
So when we search something.
And then when they show the search, we want to delete this search term so you can do it.
It's optional.
It's up to you.
So you just set the search to an empty string.
So now we have created the website, but this is inside the local host 3000.
So we cannot share it with others.
We just need to deploy this one to the Internet.
The place that we want to deploy it is.
Versal.